.TH stringgen 1  "October 10, 2007" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
stringgen \- generate all possible combinations of the nucleotides in a DNA sequence 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stringgen 
name_of_input_file  name_of_output_file 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I stringgen
reads an input sequence (DNA) from an input file and generate new
sequences of the same length to an output file. The generated
sequences gives all the possible recombinations of the nucleotides in the
original input sequence. The number of the various nucleotide types in
the generated sequences does not vary from the original sequence. The
input file should only contain one input sequence and this input sequence
can further only contain A, C, G, T as upper case.
.PP
The output from 
.I stringgen
to standard out is in Norwegian.
.SH
EXAMPLE 
To generate all possible combinations of the nucleotides in
the input sequence given in the input file 'infile' and write them to
the output file 'outfile', just type:
.IP 
.B stringgen
infile outfile
.SH CITE
Please cite in the following manner if you choose to use stringgen:
.PP
V. Knudsen and G.Caetano-Anolles, Some title of a paper published in
some journal.
.SH VERSION
This man page documents stringgen version 0.1. 
.SH LICENSE
Copyright 1999-2007 by Vegeir Knudsen. All rights reserved.
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.IP 1.  
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.IP 2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.PP
.SB DISCLAIMER:
.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

.SH AUTHORS
Vegeir Knudsen and Gustavo Caetano-Anolles.



