.TH marten 1  "October 10, 2007" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
marten \- count the number of unpaired, paired and bulged nucleotides
in folded RNA sequences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B marten
\-i name_of_input_file [\-o prefix_name_of_output_file] 
[\-S number_of_character_states] [\-x the_size_of_the_search_space] 
[\-h] [\-v] [\-e] [\-r]  [\-s] [\-p] [\-a] [\-m] [\-n] [\-g] 
[\-V] [\-P] [\-l] [\-R]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I marten 
counts the number of unpaired, paired and bulged nucleotides for each
helix strand in the secondary structure of folded RNA
sequences. The RNA sequences are fed into the program through an input
file in the DCSE alignment format. The output of
.I marten
 are presented (depending on the options used) as a NEXUS formated
file and a text file referred to as the MARTEN file. In the character
state matrix of the NEXUS formated file, each row represents one input
sequence and each helix strand of the various input sequences is
represented by three numbers. (These three numbers are the number of
unpaired, paired and bulged nucleotides for that helix strand.) If the '-P' 
option is used, then the MARTEN file will display the various
helix strands as 'x[y{z}]'. The characters 'x', 'y' and 'z' are the
number of unpaired, paired and bulged nucleotides respectively.
.PP
.I marten 
also translates the secondary structure of folded RNA sequences from
the DCSE alignment format to the bracket notation. All the alignment
information between the input sequences are lost during this
translation.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be used with 
.I marten. 
.TP
\-i 
The name of the DCSE formated input file. The input file typically
contains more than one sequence.
.TP
\-o 
The prefix name of the output file. The output file names ends
with '.mar', '.nex', '.fas' and '.con'. The '.mar' and '.nex' files
are the MARTEN file and the NEXUS formated file respectively.  Both
the '.fas' and '.con' file are the output of the translator (DCSE ->
bracket notation). In the '.con' file, the unpaired nucleotides are
printed as 'x' and the '.con' file can therefore be used as an input
file to RNAfold to constrain the folding.
.TP
\-S 
Change the number of character states in the NEXUS files. Default
is 64, which is also the maximum.
.TP
\-h
Print a short help text to standard out.
.TP
\-V
Print the version number.
.TP
\-v
Give verbose output to standard out.
.TP
\-r
Make a flipped character state matrix. Rows becomes columns and vice versa.
.TP
\-x 
Change the number of positions outside the helix strands ('[]') where
marten looks for a helix number. Default is 0.
.TP
\-e
Eliminate gaps ('-') within the helix strands ('[]').
.TP
\-s 
Summerize the number of nucleotides in each bulge ('{}'). (This
option automatically includes the \-e option.)
.TP
\-p
Remove the non-standard pairing information ('()').
.TP
\-a 
Summerize the number of nucleotides in all the bulges ('{}') for
each stem strand. (This option automatically includes the \-s option.)
.TP
\-m
Summerize the number of bases outside the stem strands (unpaired).
.TP
\-n 
Summerize the number of paired nucleotides in each helix
strand. (This option automatically includes the \-p option.)
.TP
\-g
Remove the gaps ('-') outside of the helix strands ('[]').
.TP
\-P 
Make the NEXUS formated file with the character state
matrix. (This option automatically includes the \-e, \-s, \-p, \-a,
\-m, \-n and \-g option. This option also activates the translator.)
.TP
\-l 
List the minimum and maximum values for each colum in the
character state matrix.
.TP
\-R 
Add complementary numbers (unpaired, paired and bulged) for each
helix and present the result in a separate character state matrix.
.SH EXAMPLES
The minimum number of arguments needed to make the NEXUS file:
.IP
.B marten 
\-i name_of_input_file \-P
.SH CITE
Please cite in the following manner if you choose to use marten:
.PP
V. Knudsen and G.Caetano-Anolles, Some title of a paper published in
some journal.
.SH VERSION
This man page documents 
.I marten 
version 0.1. 
.SH LICENSE
Copyright 1999-2007 by Vegeir Knudsen. All rights reserved.
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.IP 1.  
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.IP 2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.PP
.SB DISCLAIMER:
.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

.SH AUTHORS
Vegeir Knudsen and Gustavo Caetano-Anolles.



