.TH stoat 1  "October 10, 2007" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
stoat \- calculate statistical values of secondary structures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stoat
\-i name_of_input_file [\-o prefix_name_of_output_file] 
[\-x number_of_character_states] [\-h] [\-v] [\-f "RNAfold_arguments"]
[\-t] [\-r] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I stoat 
calculates four statistical values from the secondary structure of
folded RNA strings. The RNA strings are fed to the program through an
input file in the FASTA format and the secondary structure of the
various input sequences are obtained by interactions with the RNAfold
program from the Vienna package. The four statistical values are the
Shannon entropy, the Forbenius norm, the Base-pairing propensity and
the mean stem length. The calculations are presented in two NEXUS
formated files where each row in the matrix represents
the statistical values of each input sequence. 
.PP
.I stoat 
also translates the secondary structure (either provided by the user
or obtained from RNAfold) from the bracket notation to the DCSE
format. This translator only translate each sequence separately and
does not do any type of alignment between the various sequences in the
input file.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be used with 
.I stoat. 
For a list of the RNAfold options, please see the RNAfold man page at
.I http://www.tbi.univie.ac.at/~ivo/RNA/RNAfold.html 
.TP
\-i 
The name of the FASTA formated input file. The input file
typically contains more than one RNA sequence.

.TP
\-o 
The prefix name of the output file. The output file names ends
with '_l.nex', '_g.nex' and '.dcse'. The '_l.nex' file gives the
character states relative to the min and max values of that run where
as the '_g.nex' gives the character states relative to 0 and 1.
.TP
\-x 
Change the number of character states in the NEXUS files. Default
is 31 and maximum is 64.
.TP
\-h
Prints help to standard out.
.TP
\-v
Gives verbose output to standard out.
.TP
\-f 
Arguments to be used by RNAfold. These parameters have to be
enclosed in " ". The default arguments used with RNAfold are "-p -d2
-noLP".
.TP
\-t 
Use the constrained input structure and not the RNAfolded
secondary structure to generate the DCSE format.
.TP
\-r
Make a flipped character state matrix. Rows becomes columns and vice versa.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP PATH
RNAfold needs to bee in $PATH.
.SH EXAMPLES
The minimum number of arguments needed to run stoat:
.IP
.B stoat 
\-i name_of_input_file
.SH REFERENCES
The equations used to calculate the Shannon entropy, the Forbenius
norm, the Base-pairing propensity and the mean stem length were found
in the two following papers:
.PP
.TP
[1] 
E. A. Schultes, P. T. Hrabrer and T. H. LaBean, Estimating the
Contributions of Selection and Self-Organization in RNA Secondary
structure, Journal of Molecular Evolution, Pages 76-83, 1999.
.TP     
[2] 
P. P. Gardner, B. R. Holland, V. Moulton, M. Hendy and D. Penny,
Optimal Alphabets for an RNA World, The Royal Society of London B,
Pages 1177-1182, 2003.
.SH CITE
Please cite in the following manner if you choose to use stoat:
.PP
V. Knudsen and G.Caetano-Anolles, Some title of a paper published in
some journal.
.SH VERSION
This man page documents stoat version 0.1. 
.SH LICENSE
Copyright 1999-2007 by Vegeir Knudsen. All rights reserved.
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.IP 1.  
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.IP 2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.PP
.SB DISCLAIMER:
.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

.SH AUTHORS
Vegeir Knudsen and Gustavo Caetano-Anolles.



